**AZ-01 - Azure Global Infrastructure**
===
**Key-terms**
---

In het document van Techgrounds worden deze services van Azure aangekaart als services waar je meer in-depth kennis voor nodig hebt.

- Regions and Region Pairs: Azure Regions are desinged to help you achieve reliabilty for your bussiness-critical workloads. It ensires that Azure services within any region offer the best possible performance and security. An Azure Region Pair is a relationship between 2 Azure Regions within the same geographic region for disaster recovery purposes. If one region fails then the services will automatically failover to that regions secondairy region in pair.

- Availability Zones: Availabiltity zones are connected by a high performance network with a round trip less than 2ms. They help your data stay synchronized and accessible when things go wrong. Each zone is composed of one or more datacenters equiped with independent power, cooling and networking infrastructure. The zones are designed so that if one zone is affected, the two remaining zones keep up the regional services, capacity and high availibility.

- Resource Groups: Resource groups are logical containers in which you can group, manage and bill Azure resources.

- Subscriptions: a subscription represents a pay-agreement and access to Azure-services. It gives you the possibility to create and manage resources within Azure- Cloud

- Management Groups: Management groups allow you to apply policies and acces to control in a hierarchical manner to multiple subscriptions within your organization.

- Azure Resource Manager: Is the infrastructure management layer wich is used to implement, manage and secure resources within Azure cloud.

- Virtual Machines: VM's give the possibility to create and manage virtual computers in Azure. You have total control over the OS and the applications that come with it.

- Azure App Services: AAS is a platform for hosting web applications, mobile app back-ends and RESTful API's with built in scalabilty, security and management options.

- Azure Container Instances (ACI): ACI provides a simple way to implement and manage containers without having to worry about underlying infrastructure.

- Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): AKS is a managed Kubernetes-service where you can orchestrate, scale and manage containers with the power of Azure.

- Azure Virtual Desktop: Gives users the possibility to access Windows-desktops and applications within the cloud.

- Virtual Networks: Virtual Networks offer isolated network envoirments in Azure which gives you control over IP-reach, network security groups en traffic.

- VPN Gateway: Offers a save connection between on-premise networks and Azure Virtual Networks trough encrypted VPN-Gateways

- Virtual Network Peering: Makes it possible to connect virtual networks within Azure directly to each other so they are able to communicate within the internal Azure-network.

- ExpressRoute: Offers a private connection between your on-premise infrastructure and Azure-datacenters trough a special connectivity of providers.

- Container (Blob) Storage: Blob storage offers a scalable storage solution for storing and managing unstructred data such as images, video's and documents.

- Disk storage: Offers a persistent managed storage for usesage with VM's and other Azure-services.

- File Storage: Offers a fully managed shared file-system service for sharing documents between applications and VM's.

- Storage Tiers: Offer different performance an cost options for storiung data such as Hot, Cold and Archive, based on the access frequency.

- Cosmos DB: Is a scalable worldwide distributed NoSQL-database that lets developers build flexible and responsive applications

- Azure SQL Database: A complete managed relational databaseservice based on Microsoft SQL Server.

- Azure Database for MySQL: Fully controlled MySQL-databaseservice in Azure

- Azure Database for PostgreSQL: fully controlled PostgreSQL-databaseservice in Azure

- SQL Managed Instance: Offers a fully controllable SQL Server-infrastructure where you can host databases without worrying about the under lying infrastructure.

- Azure Marketplace: Online marketplace for Applications, Virtual Machines and other solutions that can be installed in Azure.


**Opdracht**
---
Study:



*Gebruikte bronnen*

[ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com) --> Korte definitie gevraagd in het nederlands en vervolgens zelf engelse vertaling in document verwerkt.


*Ervaren problemen*
---


*Resultaat!*
---

