**AZ-01 - Azure Global Infrastructure**
===
**Key-terms**
---


**Opdracht**
---
Study:

- Wat is een Azure Region?
    
    Azure Regions are desinged to help you achieve reliabilty for your bussiness-critical workloads. It ensires that Azure services within any region offer the best possible performance and security.

- Wat is een Azure Availability Zone?

    Availabiltity zones are connected by a high performance network with a round trip less than 2ms. They help your data stay synchronized and accessible when things go wrong. Each zone is composed of one or more datacenters equiped with independent power, cooling and networking infrastructure. The zones are designed so that if one zone is affected, the two remaining zones keep up the regional services, capacity and high availibility.

- Wat is een Azure Region Pair?

    An Azure Region Pair is a relationship between 2 Azure Regions within the same geographic region for disaster recovery purposes. If one region fails then the services will automatically failover to that regions secondairy region in pair.

- Waarom zou je een regio boven een andere verkiezen?

    There are many factors involved in their placement; from geo-political to internet latency for population centers. Each Azure Region in a pair is always located greater than 300 miles (480km) apart when possible. This is to isolate each region in the pair from being affected by the same regional disasters that could take one of each region down.


*Gebruikte bronnen*

[Learn Microsoft](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/reliability/availability-zones-overview)

[Build 5 nines](https://build5nines.com/azure-region-pairs-explained/)



*Ervaren problemen*
---


*Resultaat!*
---

