**AZ-03 - Advantages of Cloud**
===
**Key-terms**
---




**Opdracht**
---
Bestudeer:

- De 6 advantages of the cloud

As described in documentations of Azure the 6 advantages of cloud computing are:

    - Optimized costs: There are significant savings in resource, maintanance and real estate costs, in addition to the ability to optimize workloads so that they can cost less to run.

    - Flexibility and scalability: Organizations pay only for the services they use, when needed orgz. can alter their resources instantly on demand, option to choose to store things in cloud or on premises, offers global presence meaning workloads can run closer to where users or customers are.

    - Enhanced security: Many public clouds have built-in security features and specialized cloud security tools to help ensure that an organization's resources are protected. Security patching is done automatically by the cloud provider in many cases.

    - Compliance: Some cloud platforms have specialized offerings to seamlessly meet compliance requirements—this is ideal for highly regulated industries like finance, healthcare, and government.

    - Backup, recovery, failover: Most cloud providers help to improve business continuity by offering built-in, one-click backup and recovery capabilities. Some providers also offer the ability to store backups in different geographic regions.

    - Simplified management and monitoring: Organizations can manage and monitor their on-premises datacenter and cloud resources from a single screen if the cloud provider offers a central management tool.

These advantages are described differently by other providers (AWS, GoogleCloud) but in essence tell you the same thing.

- Het consumption-based model

You pay what you use, Pay-as-you-go. 

*Gebruikte bronnen*
---

[AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview/six-advantages-of-cloud-computing.html)

[Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/benefits-of-cloud-migration/#benefits)

*Ervaren problemen*
---


*Resultaat*
---

